I am excited and delighted to share with you all my home studio space!
My husband and I have recently moved to a larger home and with it came a conservatory space with a lovely real roof so that we don't feel like we're in a greenhouse! I immediately earmarked it as a yoga space, initially just for my home practise but we soon realised it was spacious enough to host small classes. The space can fit a cosy five mats plus my own and it has ample ventilation for warmer days and central heating for cool winter days. We also have a long driveway to accommodate parking with access straight into the yoga studio without anyone having to walk through the house which works well for both parties. I have gained my experience teaching at various locations in the past 6 years which i will get to in a moment if you care to read on. 

I have experience of teaching in large spaces such as village hall's but the largest i have taught at is our local leisure centre where i taught two classes a week for three years and this really helped me to overcome my anxiety of teaching to a large group. It also taught me to change lesson plans last minute to suit the needs of people who came to class, to be able to modify poses to accommodate different ages and abilities and it also taught me to raise my voice a little more when teaching so that everyone in the large space could hear me clearly. The time i spent teaching at the local leisure centre has been invaluable and it has also taught me how much i enjoy teaching smaller groups rather than a large group of 30 plus!

Speaking of smaller group classes, it brings me to my experience of teaching at Blizard Physiotherapy for almost four years where the setting wasn't dissimilar to my home studio. These classes were poles apart from the large leisure centre classes, with space for six people maximum per class but often teaching three to four. Once again i needed to tailor each class to suit the needs of the people attending ranging from rehab clients who had been referred to me by the physiotherapists in the clinic, and to athletes who had been referred to me via the clinic's in house running/athlete coach. I would teach three back to back classes but no class was ever the exact same, as each class brought its own individuals with their own needs. I enjoyed the challenges of teaching small group classes and i also found that i could keep my eye on the whole room and each person got my full attention. It was whilst teaching at Blizard's that i realised that teaching smaller groups was my preferred way of teaching. 

The way i teach now i think i have found the right balance of teaching larger groups in the local village hall's where everyone has a little more space to call their own for an hour or so and i can also replicate the small class environment i had at Blizard's now with my own home studio classes, not only does this suit my teaching style i find there is a space and time to suit everyone who chooses to come to my classes. 
